Down on the fourth floor, it had all kinds of trash
and garbage and dirt mixed in with it. Then on the
second floor, it was plenty of water that stayed
with us, and we could sweep it down to the first
floor, which of course caught it off. Were there
ever any fireworks in the... I never heard any,
don't recall any. Okay. Nothing electrical,
nothing plugged into a socket. Not that I recall.
I'll tell you how tight I was. I had a radio. I
couldn't get it to play. They said you needed an
aerial so I went over and I didn't know what aerial
wire was. So I went over to the store at Northgate.
They told me that the wire that I asked for, I said
this is probably what I need. I didn't know
anything. And it was a regular electrical wire and
they said it was 10 cents a foot. Well I know the
nearest tree must have been 50 feet away. They
didn't have five dollars to spend on So I just told
him I'd take three feet and walk out of there with
three feet. Of course, it was absolutely no value.
Later, I found out what aerial wire was and brought
some. The radio never did work
well. Once you became a sophomore, during the war
years, was there very much difference in being a
freshman, and were those class differences
notable during the war, or were they obscured? No,
no, they were notable. We knew who sophomores were
and juniors and who the freshmen were. And let's
see, as a freshman, I don't think we had any
freshmen in our, I think we were really sophomore
freshmen, because as I remember, the sophomore
and the few juniors and seniors were there all in
the same dorm, I don't think we had any freshmen in
our dorm until our junior year. We had been there in
our fifth semester. So you arrived in late May of
43. Yes. And you're there for how long before you go
away? I left at the end of May in 1945, and I went in
active duty. Qualified, had six semesters, and
had enough hours to be classified as a senior. OK.
On the serious side. What did you and your
contemporaries think about in your serious
moments? What did you all think was just ahead of
you? Well, y'all knew we were going into service,
and that my roommate and I had hitchhiked to
Houston and stayed with my folks and enlisted in
the Air Force in November of 45, 44. We weren't
called until we had the K-18 to be called up.
I don't know that we thought anything serious. We
paid attention to the war a little bit. I don't know
that we thought much about it. I don't remember any
serious discussions. Well, did you all think this
was like a court trip or that it was a lot more
serious than that? Well, we had fun. I don't know. I
guess it was fun we had while we were there. Looking
back, I know I enjoyed it. I don't know how I felt
then. But I don't remember any serious thoughts
about the war, except that we wanted to go and be
part of it. I think everybody did. We wanted to go
and be part of it. Were there any events, world
events or otherwise, that you remember while you
were at A&M? Do you remember where you were when you
heard the news? I remember President Roosevelt's
death, which I guess everybody that was there did.
Describe that, please. Coming back from lunch, I
guess it was, from Duncan Hall, going back to dorm
7, there was a newsstand, I guess between dorm 9 and
the band dorm 11. I guess it was. And I remember
hearing somebody had a radio or something and told
us about it.
I don't know if I was any more impressed than that
one way or the other, that Truman was a successor.
don't remember any other thoughts at this moment.
One thing I don't know maybe you've never told
about before, but there were concessions on the
campus when we were there. Oh, no. The YMCA had a Y
building, which I guess is still called the Y, and
the basement had a soda fountain. I don't think
there was a full drugstore, but a soda fountain, I
know. And then under a big old tree in front of the
Well, I see it would be to the north of the academic
building near the ME building and the electrical
engineering building, the big oak tree. And it had
a stand there where we could get hot dogs and
hamburgers and soft drinks. And we did a lot of that
instead of going to the mess hall at noon. Or maybe
just for snack. I guess for snack. And that wasn't a
violation of any? I guess so. It was fully
authorized by the university. I mean, it was okay
for a freshman or a sophomore to- Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
I don't remember any problems coming up as a result
of it. And were those the only places on campus to
get a snack? As I recall, those were the only
places. I don't remember any place else. I don't
know of anything that did what the- There might
have been, there was another male
post office. near, behind, behind, not Walton,
um, well, near what's, across from the trigon
today. And, uh, I'm not sure, maybe it didn't have
some drinks in there, but the only thing I remember
about that is that we, uh, we had a dance before I
left for service, and I had a date. At that time, I
had started dating, which was interesting. I met
her because... The guy that was a year ahead of me
was having an argument with her in Houston one
weekend. And he said, tell her how good a guy I am.
Well, I went to tell her I ended up being here
instead of him. But anyway, we sat on the male ramp
that would be unloaded dock high level. And I
thanked her. And if I were saying goodnight or
something, that was the only time I really
remember going over there. During those years
before you left, Were there some memorable
teachers, advisors, counselors that you recall?
There was a Dr. Pinkerton, I don't remember his
first name, who was head of the aero department
when I finally started taking some aero courses,
who we were always told was always in contact with
the Department of the Army and the Air Force for
research projects. And what was his name? Did
Pinkerton have a nickname? That is out of my mind.
If it is, prompt me, but I don't remember. I don't
know. There was another fellow that was so bent
over from arthritis, I can't remember his name. He
was an excellent teacher. I can't remember his
name. There was another guy. After that escapade
at our freshman ball, I had an English teacher. I
think his name was Greer. I'm not sure. I went into
his class, 8 o'clock, I guess this was Saturday
morning, and he had already been sick all night. He
was going to give us a quiz that morning. Why he
picked that morning to give us a quiz after our
dance the night before was unfair, but it was done.
And halfway through the exam, it was an English
class. Halfway through, I told him I was sick and
had to go outside. And the only time I ever saw him
grimp was when I went outside. And then I came back,
and I failed the course.
He failed, I don't know how many, but most of us,
many of us failed this course that year. Why we
failed English, I don't know. All right, let's
see. English grammar, I wasn't very good at. All
right, other teachers I'm trying to provoke your
thought chemistry, math. Dr. Harrington was my
chemistry teacher. Describe him. M.T.
Harrington. What kind of teacher? Brilliant
lecturer. Very articulate, as you know, and knew
him. Just made everything in the lecture class
understandable, very easy to comprehend. I say
very easy to comprehend since having had the same
book in high school, I guess it made it easier, but
just a very personable person. I didn't know him
personally in those years, I met him in later
years, but just very relaxed, easy, articulate
person, easy to know. A guy I didn't get along with,
Which is a bad experience that I can't remember his
name offhand either. Did Harrington have a
nickname? Not as I recall it yet. It was in the
physics department and I failed the physics
before I left for service, failed his class. We had
a bad experience with him.
Let's see, what were the expected rules of
classroom behavior, appearance? Had to be in
uniform. But beyond that, of course,
well-shaved, haircut, and things like that,
shoeshine. But beyond that, I don't recall
anything else. Absences? They were very
definitely frowned on. And we didn't cut many
classes. No reason to cut classes during the week
if there's no place to go or nothing to do. But
Saturdays, it was very prone to be cut. And we did
cut classes occasionally to go to weekends to
football games. Sleeping? The only class I
remember sleeping in was the lecture class about
physics that I failed, which is probably why I
failed. And there was an engineering drawing
class called...
It wasn't engineering drawing. It was a math
course that we used. I can't think of the name of the
course. But Ransdell was the teacher, a very good
teacher, but it was right after lunch, and I
couldn't stay away. Is Charles Ransdell? I think
so. In engineering? Yeah. He later became head of
the, not engineering design, but what is it now?
Retired, lives in the eastern edge of Albuquerque
now. Really? He was an excellent teacher, a nice
person. Engineering distribution, industrial
distribution, he was involved in that, and my son
had him as the head of those departments or
something.
Let's see. Were there any famous visitors in these
pre-war months that you recall? No, I don't ever
remember recalling them. Alright, and when y'all
went, you and your friends went somewhere for
excitement, other than back home, where else did
y'all go? Oh, we would go to downtown Bryan, we'd go
to Eaton, Eaton, two or three cafes that were
there, or we went to the movies, or we went to the
campus theater, and they never will get, My first
semester, I wouldn't have thought of it if you
hadn't reminded me. The two late girls, young
girls I suppose, singers, had vocal programs
between movies and the campus theater at that
time. They sang it. And one of the songs that I
always remember singing, why they did it, was the
Lillian Marlene. But why they sang a German song in
those years, I don't remember. Describe the
campus theater, as you would call it. Of course, it
hadn't changed. It was still the only, except for
Guy, the only theater there in the neighborhood.
I guess it had a small balcony. I don't remember,
but we all sat downstairs.
Almost all students in the audience? Yeah,
almost. I don't remember anybody else, but I'm
sure there probably were. The building is a
typical theater. I don't know how else to describe
a theater. I guess you could call it kind of an Art
Deco thing today, but I don't know if you could call
it anything now. Describe the rest of Northgate
and those drugstores. One of them was directly
across the street. I don't remember the name of
that one. And upstairs it had a... I had some pool
tables, as well as marble machines. Behind it was
Zubik's, where the uniform stores, and
Lagerstein's, I think. Hollick's? Hollick's,
instead of Lagerstein's. Hollick's. Zubik's and
Hollick's. Across the street from that, on the
opposite side, not on the campus, was another drug
store with some marble machines. I had my first
breakfast there on one Sunday. Hot dog, ham,
hotcakes, and eggs on top of the Sunday side up.
There was another place with a hamburger joint
just to the south of there. And then Lupo's was
there. And he, what did Lupo's say? Used new books
and uniforms and anything he could get us to buy.
Did y'all borrow, did you ever borrow any money
from him? No, I had an allowance. I was fortunate to
have an allowance. What kind of? Do you remember?
Two
to five dollars a week or a month. I don't remember
now. But I kept strict. as I've mentioned for a
while, and I think I've still got one of those
summaries on what it kept for me. What activities
were held at the YMCA? A lot of meetings were held
there, class meetings. I'm sure there were church
services there on Sundays. I don't know, they must
have been. We had no chapel. Doesn't matter. I
really don't know. Well, there was a bowling
alley, I think, in there, too. But I never bowled,
so I never went there. Well, all right. Then Guyon
Hall. What held it? Guyon was a stately building
with poor acoustics and hard chairs. And we
watched the release of We've Never Been Licked
there. They had other meetings there. Kind of the
premiere? I don't know. Yes, it was, because they
did the photography. Describe that. We all
marched in and saw a movie, is the best I can
describe it. We were up kind of in the balcony on the
left side, which would be the east side of the
building, as I remember. Dignitaries there? I
don't remember. No, it was filmed before you got
there. It was filmed before I got there, but I
think, as I recall, we had the... A premium in there
anyway. Do you remember any reaction of you real
Aggies to- Corny. But maybe that could have come
later too, I don't know. You thought it was corny?
Yes. That was my reaction then or later, I don't
know. But it sure definitely is. Let's see, were
there any significant speakers, clergy,
performers in Guyon that you remember during
those years? I don't remember. They had them. I
didn't go, I guess, because I don't remember it.
Were there any religious activities held on
campus? If there were, the only place would have
been in the Y, that I can recall. I don't recall
anywhere else. They did have some. At that time,
the old synagogue was open in downtown Lyon. They
had services there. I might have gone there one
time, I think, for something. But that was all.
Other than that, it was part of the holiday I went
from home. That was close. And you've given a very
positive reaction to me of the way you felt about
the way you were treated in regard to being Jewish.
Yeah. OK. Tell me about the diversity of the
student body. Were there any Hispanics, any Asian
that you recall? I don't recall any Asians offhand
that I can recall. I think there were maybe a few
Hispanics with the, oh I know there were because
Fernando Zuniga was one of my good friends from
Laredo.
Gus Celaya was another one. C-E-L-A-Y.
C-E-L-A-Y.
Were they treated differently than you? Not that I
know about. You don't remember any nicknames or
stunts or pranks or anything? Not that I ever was
involved in or heard about. Any Lebanese
Americans? No halibutis, no? I don't recall
anybody by those names anyway. And was the student
body, do you remember anybody notable for being
rich? Mm-mm. Couldn't know anybody. We were all in
uniform. And after the war, I don't remember. I
don't recall anybody having a car. Well, there
probably were some cars in those days. Couldn't be
kept on campus. All right. Special events. Was
silver taps held? Silver taps was held. Of course,
that was a religious moment. Everybody who paid
strict attention to it, the whole student body,
turned out for it at that time. And the lights
definitely were off. It was held? At the flagpole
in front of the academic building, which is then
Military Walk, which was a street near Roswald. It
was right in front.
Muster? Muster. See, I got there, and the first
mustard was in April of 44. And I didn't stay for
that. I came to Houston because a friend of mine had
had brain surgery. It was an all-sun Aggie, but he
had quit school. He quit school. He was in the Air
Force, and they laid him out because he had the
brain. He discovered the tumor at that time. He was
in the class of 45.
another friend of mine in the class of 46, and I
hitchhiked home to see him. I didn't stay for that
first muster, which I always regret. Do you
remember where it was held? Probably in Guyon, but
no I don't, offhand. We've been into Warefield
House too. Did you students, had you all heard
about the Corregidor muster? I don't think I had
heard about the Corregidor muster. I haven't run
into anybody who had. I don't think I had ever heard
about the Corregidor Muster. All right, yell
practice. Where was yell practice held? Yell
practice was on the steps of the Y. And held when
during the week? Was it? Probably Tuesday and
Thursday, but I don't remember specifically. But
was there a midnight yell practice? Yeah, there
was midnight yell practice. OK, and it was held
there? Yeah, it was held there. All right, let's
go. We were serious, so let's go now to a lighter.
Tell me about, describe a football game day, home
game. Home game? Take from the, from Friday night.
Okay, at some point, no, we didn't do that until
later. Make this T, that was later years. First
year, I don't remember anything special except
the yell practice. I don't think we marched in. I
don't think we had any kind of review. We would go to
the game. We'd sit in front. We'd stand as
freshmen. I'll never forget losing to Texas. One
of the Yale leaders at that time was a junior, Jack
Knox, who was an association president and a
renowned dermatologist, as you know. was one of
the junior Yale leaders. And after we lost to Texas
that year, I made an effort to find him and probably
tell him it would get better. And we both cried a
little bit and let it go at that. That was your first
Texas game? Yes. No, the first Texas game as a
student. As a student, yes, yes, yes. I had
attended every, from 1939
through 1975. I made every Texas game. I even got on
leave to go overseas in time to come to the game. And
then when I got home in time the next year to attend
the game, first event I did, got home on a Thursday
the game. I mean, on a Tuesday the game. On a
Saturday the game was the following Thursday that
I came home.
Jack became one of my good friends as a result of
that chance meeting after the game.
You didn't have a car during those years. Now you go
away to the war. Now you came back when? Came back,
started back to school in February of 1947. 47. So
you were away... I was away from... Almost three
years. No, no. No, no. I was away from... Oh, no, no.
45. 45. Yeah, two years. Two years. A year and a
half. Okay. First of all, how had you changed?
Well, I was much more mature in that respect. I had
been in service and... I just knew I had grown up,
been in service. Where had you served? There was a
little town called Schlangenbad in Germany,
which was maybe 30 miles from Wiesbaden, maybe 50,
60 miles from Frankfurt, just a few miles from the
Rhine River. Had a nice little aviation engineer
headquarters. Our main project were to rebuild
and build airfields.
I worked in operations, and we'd go into East
Biden, to the American Red Cross, and it was a nice
place. I had ice cream there, fresh
eggs, and in about eight months, we had got served
there. Lived in a small hotel, two-door room. We
didn't have any sheets, but we took mattress
covers, sheets out of them. It was very nice. We
could have laundry done for a couple of weeks for a
bar or so. Buy most anything you wanted to for
cigarettes. I sent members of them. Eventually
bought things and sent home Dresden statuettes
and Knives, carving knives and things I bought
with cigarettes. My best friend there was a guy
from Atlantic, Iowa. We had our picture taken for
cigarettes
and gum and candy. We had above the officer's club
and headquarters, there was a swimming pool and a
tennis court that we were able to use. We had a, my
first involvement with really when printing was
in that, we had a printing press there that they
used for maps. Lithograph press. Right, and you
served there? That was the only place I served
actively. So you came back then? I came back from
there, I guess my first. And you're how, what age
when you got back
to Indiana? Let's see, this was 47, so I guess I was
20. And I got sacked. Very mature. And I'm
thinking, I'm chuckling about the experiences
you had had compared to today's 20-year-old.
Well, they were 100% different, but thank God I had
them because I, between A&M and the service, I grew
up. You're still an aero engineer. Yeah. I still
finished in aero because it was only three
semesters instead of four. Right. Describe A&M
physically then when you arrived the second time.
The mob scene because all the classes were full and
the dorms were full and I went back in the corps
because I wanted to get a commission and ended up
rooming with Dave Schwartz from Galveston which
it was an accident but it was almost a purposeful
accident. His older brother had been in the Navy,
and I knew him physically, let's say, before he
left for the Navy. So when he came back, I saw him, I
knew him, and he told me that Babe had shown up on the
campus. And so I found him, and we became
roommates. And we're still best friends at this
wedding. We're still good friends.
But there was a mob scene that was all led by the big
war vets. I never felt as a war veteran because my
service was so easy as compared to what they had.
And they were always the student leaders. We had
many of them. The athletes who'd gone into service
came back. Marty Welch, Willie Zappalak.
I can't remember others right now. But they came
back and they were, a guy named Bill Andrews was the
one that I remember why I don't remember his name,
but we had a big meeting over something important
I'm sure in the old Wooden Assembly Hall.
I don't know why I remember his name all of a sudden.
Where did the married veterans live? They had
converted dorms and barracks that were moved in at
the, I guess it was the North Gate area, some on
campus and some off campus. Were there trailers? I
don't recall any trailers. How did you and your
fellow veterans respond to a corps ritual? By that
time I was an upperclassman and a senior. didn't
bother me at all. I participated in all the core
activities until I, for the first two semesters I
was back and when I had one more semester I needed, I
needed two military science courses to graduate
and get commissioned and other courses so I went to
the commandant. And they had permission to audit
the courses and move out of the course so I could. I
took the two military science courses, I think I
took 24, 25 hours that semester. But the military
science courses were easy having been in service
and there weren't any problems. And I didn't put a
uniform on until I went to take the test. I didn't
have to drill because it concluded with labs. I
already had it very easy that last semester there.
So you're there how long? Three semesters. The
last semester was the spring of about 48. Were
there any faculty members from that period that
you remember? Faculty members, advisors,
counselors?
That's when I had the professor that was Dr.
Riddick. He was so spooked over, he couldn't
straighten up. It started with a B. I keep thinking
of his name still. Who was president then? I think
Gilchrist was then president. It might have been
Harrington for a while. No, I think it was
Gilchrist. In that period of time. The most
significant things I remember were two common
laws. Though Davis had been retired or replaced
for whatever reason, I don't remember. And Gaius
Malloy was a commandant and a wonderful military
person who he loved to follow if he had to go to
combat. And then General Boatner, who became
General Boatner, he went to Korea and settled the
riots in the Korean prison camps very quickly.
Describe his personality as you knew it. Oh, he's
strong as horse radish. stocky, very military,
very, I don't want to say Germanic in his military
approach, very rigid. That's probably a better
way to put it. Now, when you get back, the freshmen
are all at Bryan Field.
Weren't they there before I left, too? I don't
know. I guess not because Bryan Field was used for
For the military at that time. So I guess they were
at Bryan Field that first semester. Did you
upperclassmen interact with them much? Never. We
might have been good drill with them, but that may
be all. Were there still pranks and good bull with
you upperclassmen only on the campus? I don't
remember any drown outs specifically that I can
remember at that point. Where I'm headed is, was
there a difference in the basic attitude of you
students.